Software Architecture (40 points)
In this part you need to give clear answers to questions related to software architecture. All answers need to
be fully justified.

1. (Total points: 10) Explain in you own words what you think Software Architecture is and what the
architect’s role is. Don’t necessarily just say what is mentioned in the lectures, use your own words
and understanding, full marks will be given for an honest attempt.

At first, I thought software architecture was the practice of designing and sometimes programming software.
However, after the lecture, I realize that this statement is only partially true. A better description of software architecture is that it is 
the practice of designing the high-level structure of a software system. Where the term “high level” is pretty abstract and often refers to the overall
organization of a system, including its components, their relationships, and key design decisions. Think of high level as the "important stuff" of a system
which is exactly part of the role of an architect, being able to identify what is and is not imporant in the design of a system. In general the architect's 
role is to design a system and has to take all the important decisions before the actual construction of a system begins, examples of these choices are sometimes 
which arcitecture or framework to use. Often times architects also take the role of being the programmer and vice versa. Every programmer needs to understand 
the skeleton of the system they work on and there is no better way to understand it than actually being the designer of said system.

2. (Total points: 10) Why is a good and well thought out software architecture important?


3. (Total points: 10) Give two examples about trade-offs in software architecture that architects might
need to decide on, justify your answer.


Info: These trade-offs don’t necessarily need to be architectural characteristics, they only need
to be some architecturally significant factor(if it isn’t clear what makes the factor architecturally
significant then justify your answer)


4. (Total points: 5) Why is it important that the architect works in a close relationship with the pro-
grammers and follows and monitors the code that is produced?


5. (Total points: 5) Name one example about an architectural guideline and one example about an
architectural rule.
2
