Jóel Arnar Sævarsson 
Leó Sakamoto Kolbeinsson

Software Architecture (40 points)
In this part you need to give clear answers to questions related to software architecture. All answers need to
be fully justified.

1. (Total points: 10) Explain in you own words what you think Software Architecture is and what the
architect’s role is. Don’t necessarily just say what is mentioned in the lectures, use your own words
and understanding, full marks will be given for an honest attempt.

At first, I thought software architecture was the practice of designing and sometimes programming software.
However, after the lecture, I realize that this statement is only partially true. A better description of software architecture is that it is 
the practice of designing the high-level structure of a software system. Where the term “high level” is pretty abstract and often refers to the overall
organization of a system, including its components, their relationships, and key design decisions. Think of high level as the "important stuff" of a system
which is exactly part of the role of an architect, being able to identify what is and is not imporant in the design of a system. But in general the architect's 
role is to design a system and has to take all the important decisions before the actual construction of a system begins, examples of these choices are sometimes 
which arcitecture or framework to use. Often times architects also take the role of being the programmer and vice versa. Every programmer needs to understand 
the skeleton of the system they work on and there is no better way to understand it than actually being the designer of said system.

2. (Total points: 10) Why is a good and well thought out software architecture important?
A good and well-thought-out software architecture matters because it determines not only if a system “works,” but also whether the system is maintainable, scalable, 
stable, secure, and most importantly, deployable. The better and more well-thought-out the software architecture, the fewer problems you will have to deal with 
later in the development process of a system. In other words, the software is less likely to become a “big ball of mud,” which is essentially a sloppy and unstructured 
system in constant need of repair, rework, and refactoring. A good architecture also lets teams work in parallel instead of having the whole team rely on only one person. 
It also makes it easier for new developers to get into the system without too much effort, which could otherwise lead to discouragement or even a person not wanting to work on said system.

3. (Total points: 10) Give two examples about trade-offs in software architecture that architects might
need to decide on, justify your answer.

An example of a trade-off would be deciding if you want a system to "work" in as little time as possible which could lead to problems in the future
or carefully planing and executing a maintainable structure which does not need a whole bunch of reworking in the future, however with the cost of 
a late deployment which can sometimes be detrimental to a company. Another example is an architect may need to choose between a monolithic and a 
microservices architecture. A monolith is simpler to develop and deploy initially but becomes harder to scale and maintain as the system grows. 
Microservices allow better scalability and independent deployments, but they add complexity in communication, monitoring, and operations. 


Info: These trade-offs don’t necessarily need to be architectural characteristics, they only need
to be some architecturally significant factor(if it isn’t clear what makes the factor architecturally
significant then justify your answer)


4. (Total points: 5) Why is it important that the architect works in a close relationship with the programmers and follows and monitors the code that is produced?

It is important for the architect to work closely with programmers because they need to understand what the team is capable of achieving. 
An architecture that is unrealistic given the team’s skills, size, or experience can lead to major problems in the future. Close collaboration allows
programmers to provide feedback and help identify potential problems early, before they become major issues.


5. (Total points: 5) Name one example about an architectural guideline and one example about an architectural rule.
An example of an Architectural rule is that the presentation layer must not communicate directly with the persistence layer, 
this enforces separation of concerns, ensuring that all data access goes through a controlled layer, which improves maintainability and consistency.
An example of an Architectural guideline is, using asynchronous messaging between services to improve performance,
this is recommended to increase scalability and responsiveness, though it is not required and can is adaptable based on the system's needs.
